The objective of this work is to enable a terrestrial vehicle to maneuver itself in an external and a non structured environment or loosely structured, as a low density forest or a cultivated field. This vehicle must be able to avoid obstacles, autonomously detecting it, and drive itself to a predetermined location reasoning by its own means the pathway to follow. The navigation system will be based on image processing, in fact, by a pair of cameras, this way building a three dimensional perception of the environment. Our intention is to extract the navigability parameters from the environment, like free paths, obstructions and obstacles and combine with the positioning, orientation and destiny location (based on GPS coordinates) to build a robust navigation system.

We will use in this work the CaRINA I platform (Intelligent Robotic Car for Autonomous Navigation) from LRM-ICMC/USP, that is equipped with an stereo camera, a GPS and a compass. At the start will be studied and manipulated some algorithms for building the disparity map from images of the camera set. In this process, the algorithm must be  ompromised on delivering a good time response and quality of the generated map. By the disparity map will be elaborated a navigation map, that represents the maneuverable (safe) and non maneuverable (obstacles, hazards to avoid) regions in front of the vehicle. This map will be used in conjunction with the information of actual position e destiny (by GPS and compass) to accomplish the navigation control of the vehicle. We will consider two main technical approaches for this control, one based on neural networks, like in RoBombeiros previously developed by our group by Pessin and Osorio, and the other by the VFH algorithm. In both approaches will be considered as inputs the three dimensional information from the navigability map. Beyond that, will also be necessary some studies to enable the detection of the ground by the images, also the ground obstacles (holes) and leveling, classifying it as passable or not.

The main applications of this autonomous robot navigation system are:
(i) fire combat, like proposed by previous works of Pessin and Osorio;
(ii) agricultural applications focusing on the building of autonomous vehicles for land plowing, seeding, pulverizing and harvesting;
(iii) military applications or civil ones, on the transportation of duties or supplies on unstructured environments;
(iv) the transportation of loads in dangerous environments or where the presence of a driver can be dispensable by the meaning of protecting its security.

This kind of technology attract and promotes possible applications by the society, being of great relevancy to the research and development of new technologies in related areas, as of some initiatives that can be seen being doing in other countries (example, DARPA Grand/Urban Challenge, ELROB, AUVSI/IGVC).